---
layout: post
title: "Running Drupal on Nginx with Memcached"
date: "2013-06-07"
permalink: "/blog/2013/06/07/running-drupal-nginx-memcached/"
comments: true
categories: tech
published: true
tags: code
---

[Drupal](https://drupal.org/) is a great CMS system for deploying websites quickly and managing them easily. Traditionally Drupal was run on a [LAMP stack](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_Stack), but this configuration does not necessarily offer the best performance for the system. These days you can squeeze more performance out of Drupal by running it on a LEMP (Linux-Nginx-MySQL-PHP) stack in which Apache is replaced by the [Nginx reverse-proxy](http://nginx.org/). Further performance improvement can be gained by hooking up [memcached](http://memcached.org/) to handle cacheing. This article explains how you can prepare a professional LEMP server for your Drupal sites.

<!-- more -->

### Prerequisites

I assume you have a server available on which you have root privileges. I am using a server running Debian 7, so everything here should work the same on an Ubuntu server or other Debian-based distribution. If you're using an RPM-based distro (such as CentOS), you will need to replace the `apt-get` commands by their `yum` counterparts.

If you don't have a server to play with, I would recommend the inexpensive VPS servers offered by [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=053914aba44d). If you click through [this link](https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=053914aba44d) when signing up, you'll pay a bit of my server bill :)

I'm also assuming you configured your DNS to point a domain at the server's IP. In this text, I assume it's `example.com`

### Update your system

It'a always a good idea to keep every part of your system up-to-date and since APT makes is so simple, let's start with an update of the APT cache and a system upgrade (installing up-to-date versions of all packages).

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get upgrade

### Install MySQL


    $ sudo apt-get install mysql-server

During the installation process you will be asked for a password for the root user. If you don't set it during installation, you can set it later using the following command (substitute a password for NEWPASSWORD).

    $ mysqladmin -u root password NEWPASSWORD

### Install Nginx

    $ sudo apt-get install nginx

    $ sudo service nginx start

You can navigate to your server (http://example.com) with your browser and Nginx should greet you with the words "Welcome to nginx!".


### Install PHP-FPM

Under Apache PHP code is executed by the web server (via mod_php). The Nginx philosophy is somewhat different. It's a reverse proxy rather then a server, so it's not running any code itself. Instead it can serve (proxy) data generated by CGI applications running on your system.

For PHP this is PHP-FPM (FastCGI Process Manager). This is a daemon process which waits for incoming requests to execute PHP code, runs the scripts and returns their output. More information can be found on the [PGP-FPM site](http://php-fpm.org/).

    sudo apt-get install php5-fpm

#### Configure PHP-FPM

Edit the `/etc/php5/fpm/php.ini` and change cgi.fix_pathinfo to 0.

    sudo vim /etc/php5/fpm/php.ini

<pre>
; cgi.fix_pathinfo provides *real* PATH_INFO/PATH_TRANSLATED support for CGI.  PHP's
; previous behavior was to set PATH_TRANSLATED to SCRIPT_FILENAME, and to not grok
; what PATH_INFO is.  For more information on PATH_INFO, see the cgi specs.  Setting
; this to 1 will cause PHP CGI to fix its paths to conform to the spec.  A setting
; of zero causes PHP to behave as before.  Default is 1.  You should fix your scripts
; to use SCRIPT_FILENAME rather than PATH_TRANSLATED.
; http://php.net/cgi.fix-pathinfo
cgi.fix_pathinfo=0
</pre>

Now check the php5-fpm configuration file `/etc/php5/fpm/pool.d/www.conf` and make sure that php5-fpm communicates with the outside world through a socket file:

<pre>
	listen = /var/run/php5-fpm.sock
</pre>

#### Restart the php-fpm service:

    sudo service php5-fpm restart


### Install Drush and Drupal

Install Drupal dependencies

    $ sudo apt-get install php5-mysql
    $ sudo apt-get install php5-gd

Create a MySQL database and user for Drupal.

    $ mysql -u root -p

    mysql> CREATE DATABASE example;
    mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON example.* TO example@localhost IDENTIFIED BY 'hskd7e345kfi';

Install Drush

    $ sudo apt-get install drush

Install Drupal in any way you prefer, for instance using Drush like this:

    $ cd /webapps/ # Or wherever you want to keep your sites
    $ drush dl drupal-7.22
    $ mv drupal-7.22/ example-drupal
    $ cd example-drupal
    $ drush site-install standard --account-name=admin --account-pass=admin --db-url=mysql://example:hskd7e345kfi@localhost/example

### Create an Nginx virtual server configuration for Drupal

Each Nginx virtual server should be described in a file in the `/etc/nginx/sites-available` directory. You select which sites you want to enable by making symbolic links to those in the  `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled` directory.

Create a new nginx server configuration file for your Drupal site running on example.com in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/example-drupal`. The file should contain something along the following lines. A good explanation can be found on the [Nginx wiki](http://wiki.nginx.org/Drupal). 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/postrational/5732653.js"></script>

Restart Nginx:

    $ sudo service nginx restart 

You can now visit your Drupal site at http://example.com and log in as admin with the password admin. Remember to change your password.


### Add memcached as Drupal's cache backend

Install memcached and the memcache PHP extension.

    $ sudo apt-get install memcached
    $ sudo apt-get install php5-memcached

Edit the php.ini file to enable the extension and configure memcache. At minimum add the following lines:

<pre>
extension=memcached.so
memcache.hash_strategy="consistent"
</pre>


In order to enable memcached-based cacheing on your Drupal site, you will need to download and enable the memcache module:

    $ cd /webapps/example-drupal
    $ drush dl memcache
    $ drush en memcache

You will also need to add `cache_backends` configuration to your settings.php file. 

    $ vim sites/default/settings.php

Add the following lines:

<pre>
$conf['cache_backends'][] = 'sites/all/modules/memcache/memcache.inc';
$conf['cache_default_class'] = 'MemCacheDrupal';
$conf['cache_class_cache_form'] = 'DrupalDatabaseCache';
</pre>

Your site is now cached using memcache. You can enable a module which installed along memcache, which will display a summary of how many memcache hits or misses were executed during the generation of every page in the admin.

    $ drush en memcache_admin

That's it, I hope it helps. If you have any problems or see areas which could be improved, feel free to leave me a comment or send me a message.